federalist 44 restrictions on the
authority of the several states
from the new york packet friday january
25th
1788 madison
to the people of the state of new york a
fifth class of provisions
in favor of the federal authority
consists of the following restrictions
on the authority of the several states
one no state shall enter into any treaty
alliance or confederation
grant letters of mark and reprisal coin
money emit bills of credit
make anything but gold and silver at
legal tender and payment of debts
pass any bill of attained or ex
post-facto law or law impairing the
obligation of contracts
or grant any title of nobility the
prohibition against treaties alliances
and confederations makes a part of the
existing articles of union and for
reasons which need no explanation
is copied into the new constitution the
prohibition of letters of mark is
another part of the old system
but is somewhat extended in the new
according to the former
letters of mark could be granted by the
states after a declaration of war
according to the latter these licenses
must be obtained as well during war as
previous to its declaration from the
government of the united states
this alteration is fully justified by
the advantage of uniformity in all
points which relate to foreign powers
and of immediate responsibility to the
nation and all those for whose conduct
the nation itself is to be responsible
the right of coining money which is here
taken from the states
was left in their hands by the
confederation as a concurrent right with
that of congress
under an exception in favor of the
exclusive right of congress to regulate
the alloy and value
in this instance also the new provision
is an improvement on the old
whilst the alloy and value depended on
the general authority
a rite of coinage in the particular
states could have no other effect than
to multiply expensive mints and
diversify the forms of weights of the
circulating pieces
the latter inconveniency defeats one
purpose for which the power was
originally submitted to the federal head
and as far as the former might prevent
an inconvenient remittance of gold and
silver to the central mint for recoinage
the end can be as well attained by local
mints established under the general
authority
the extension of the prohibition to
bills of credit must give pleasure to
every citizen
in proportion to his love of justice and
his knowledge of the true springs of
public prosperity
the loss which america has sustained
since the peace from the pestilent
effects of paper money on the necessary
confidence between man
and man on the necessary confidence in
the public councils on the industry and
morals of the people and on the
character of republican government
constitutes an enormous debt against the
states chargeable with this
unadvised measure which must long remain
unsatisfied
or rather an accumulation of guilt which
can be expiated no otherwise than by a
voluntary sacrifice on the altar of
justice of the power which has been the
instrument of it
in addition to these persuasive
considerations it may be observed that
the same reasons which show the
necessity of denying to the states the
power of regulating coin prove with
equal force that they ought not to be at
liberty to substitute a paper medium in
the place of coin
had every state a right to regulate the
value of its coin there might be as many
different currencies as states
and thus the intercourse among them
would be impeded
retrospective alterations in its value
might be made and thus the citizens of
other states be injured and animosities
be kindled among the states themselves
the subjects of foreign power might
suffer from the same cause
and hence the union be discredited and
embroiled by the indiscretion of a
single member
no one of these mischiefs is less
incident to a power in the states to
emit paper money than to coin gold or
silver
the power to make anything but gold and
silver a tender in payment of debts
is withdrawn from the states on the same
principle with that of issuing a paper
currency
bills of attainder expose facto laws and
laws impairing the obligation of
contracts are contrary to the first
principles of the social compact
and to every principle of sound
legislation the two former
are expressly prohibited by the
declarations prefix to some of the state
constitutions and all of them are
prohibited by the spirit and scope of
these fundamental charters
our own experience has taught us
nevertheless that additional fences
against these dangers ought not to be
omitted
very properly therefore have the
convention added this constitutional
bulwark in favor of personal security
and private rights
and i am much deceived if they have not
in so doing as faithfully consulted the
genuine sentiments as the undoubted
interests of their constituents
the sober people of america are weary of
the fluctuating policy which has
directed the public councils
they have seen with regret and
indignation that sudden changes and
legislative interferences
in cases affecting personal rights
become jobs in the hands of enterprising
and influential speculators
and snares to the more industrious and
less informed part of the community
they have seen too that one legislative
interference is but the first link of a
long chain of repetitions
every subsequent interference being
naturally produced by the effects of the
preceding
they very rightly infer therefore that
some thorough reform is wanting which
will banish speculations on public
measures inspire a general prudence and
industry
and give a regular course to the
business of society
the prohibition with respect to titles
of nobility is copied from the articles
of confederation and needs no comment
two no state shall without the consent
of the congress
lay any imposts or duties on imports or
exports
except what may be absolutely necessary
for executing its inspection laws
and the net produce of all duties and
imposts laid by any state on imports and
exports shall be for the use of the
treasury of the united states
and all such laws shall be subject to
the revision and control of the congress
no state shall without the consent of
congress lay any duty on tonnage keep
troops or ships of war in time of peace
enter into any agreement or compact with
another state or with a foreign power
or engage in war unless actually invaded
or in such imminent danger as will not
admit of delay the restraint on the
power of the states over imports and
exports is enforced by all the arguments
which prove the necessity of submitting
the regulation of trade to the federal
councils
it is needless therefore to remark
further on this head than that the
manner in which the restraint is
qualified
seems well calculated at once to secure
to the states a reasonable discretion in
providing for the conveniency of their
imports and exports
and to the united states a reasonable
check against the abuse of this
discretion
the remaining particulars of this clause
fall within reasonings which are either
so obvious or have been so fully
developed that they may be passed over
without remark
the sixth and last class consists of the
several powers and provisions by which
efficacy is given to all the rest
one of these the first is the power to
make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution
the foregoing powers
and all other powers vested by this
constitution in the government of the
united states or in any department or
officer thereof thereof
few parts of the constitution have been
assailed with more intemperance than
this
yet on a fair investigation of it no
part can appear more completely and
vulnerable
without the substance of this power the
whole constitution would be a dead
letter
those who object to the article
therefore as part of the constitution
can only mean that the form of the
provision is improper but have they
considered whether a better form could
have been substituted
there are four other possible methods
which the constitution might have taken
on this subject
they might have copied the second
article of the existing confederation
which would have prohibited the exercise
of any power not expressly delegated
they might have attempted a positive
enumeration of the powers comprehended
under the general terms necessary and
proper
they might have attempted a negative
enumeration of them by specifying the
powers accepted from the general
definition
they might have been altogether silent
on the subject leaving these necessary
and proper powers to construction
and inference had the convention taken
the first method of adopting the second
article of confederation
it is evident that the new congress
would be continually exposed as their
predecessors have been
to the alternative of construing the
term expressly with so much rigor as to
disarm the government of all real
authority whatever
or with so much latitude as to destroy
altogether the force of the restriction
it would be easy to show if it were
necessary that no important power
delegated by the articles of
confederation has been or can be
executed by congress without recurring
more or less to the doctrine of
construction or implication
as the powers delegated under the new
system are more extensive
the government which is to administer it
would find itself still more distressed
with the alternative of betraying the
public interests by doing nothing or
violating the constitution by exercising
powers indispensably necessary
and proper but at the same time not
expressly granted
had the convention attempted a positive
enumeration of the powers necessary and
proper for carrying their other powers
into effect
the attempt would have involved a
complete digest of laws on every subject
to which the constitution relates
accommodated too not only to the
existing state of things
but to all the possible changes which
futurity may produce
for in every new application of a
general power the particular powers
which are the means of attaining the
object of the general power
must always necessarily vary with that
object and be often properly varied
whilst the object remains the same
had they attempted to enumerate the
particular powers or means not
necessary or proper for carrying the
general powers into execution
the task would have been no less
chimerical and would have been liable to
this further objection
that every defect in the enumeration
would have been equivalent to a positive
grant of authority
if to avoid this consequence they had
attempted a partial enumeration of the
exceptions
and described the residue by the general
terms not necessary or proper
it must have happened that the
enumeration would comprehend a few of
the accepted powers only
that these would be such as would be
least likely to be assumed or tolerated
because the enumeration would of course
select such as would be least necessary
or proper
and that the unnecessary and improper
powers included in the residum
would be less forcibly accepted than if
no partial enumeration had been made
had the constitution been silent on this
head there can be no doubt that all the
particular powers requisite as means of
executing the general powers
would have resulted to the government by
unavoidable implication
no axiom is more clearly established in
law or in reason
than that wherever the end is required
the means are authorized
wherever a general power to do a thing
is given every particular power
necessary for doing it is included
had this last method therefore been
pursued by the convention
every objection now urged against their
plan would remain in all its
plausibility
and the real inconveniency would be
incurred of not removing a pretext which
may be seized on critical occasions for
drawing into question the essential
powers of the union
if it be asked what is to be the
consequence in case the congress shall
misconstrue this part of the
constitution
and exercise powers not warranted by its
true meaning
i answer the same as if they should
misconstrue or enlarge any other power
vested in them
as if the general power had been reduced
particulars and any one of these were to
be violated
the same in short as if the state
legislatures should violate the
irrespective constitutional authorities
in the first instance the success of the
usurpation will depend on the executive
and judiciary departments which are to
expound and give effect to the
legislative act
and in the last resort a remedy must be
obtained from the people who can
by the election of more faithful
representatives and all the acts of the
usurpers
the truth is that this ultimate redress
may be more confided in against
unconstitutional acts of the federal
than of the state legislatures for this
plain reason that as every such act of
the former will be an invasion of the
rights of the latter
these will be ever ready to mark the
innovation to sound the alarm to the
people and to exert their local
influence in affecting a change of
federal representatives
there being no such intermediate body
between the state legislatures and the
people interested in watching the
conduct of the former
violations of the state constitutions
are more likely to remain unnoticed and
unredressed
2. this constitution and the laws of the
united states which shall be made in
pursuance thereof
and all treaties made or which shall be
made under the authority of the united
states
shall be the supreme law of the land and
the judges in every state shall be bound
thereby
anything in the constitution or laws of
any state to the contrary
notwithstanding
the indiscrete zeal of the adversaries
to the constitution
has betrayed them into an attack on this
part of it also without which it would
have been evidently and radically
defective
to be fully sensible of this we need
only suppose for a moment that the
supremacy of the state constitutions had
been left complete by a saving clause in
their favor
in the first place as these
constitutions invest the state
legislatures with absolute sovereignty
in all cases not accepted by the
existing articles of confederation
all the authorities contained in the
proposed constitution so far as they
exceed those enumerated in the
confederation
would have been annulled and the new
congress would have been reduced to the
same
impotent condition with their
predecessors in the next place as the
constitutions of some of the states do
not even expressly and fully recognize
the existing powers of the confederacy
an express saving of the supremacy of
the former would in such states
have brought into question every power
contained in the proposed constitution
in the third place as the constitutions
of the states differ much from each
other
it might happen that a treaty or
national law of great and equal
importance to the states would interfere
with some
and not with other constitutions and
would consequently be valid in some of
the states
at the same time that it would have no
effect in others
in fine the world would have seen for
the first time a system of government
founded on an inversion of the
fundamental principles of all government
it would have seen the authority of the
whole society everywhere subordinate to
the authority of the parts
it would have seen a monster in which
the head was under the direction of the
members
three the senators and representatives
and the members of the several state
legislatures
and all executive and judicial officers
both of the united states and the
several states
shall be bound by oath or affirmation to
support this constitution
it has been asked why it was thought
necessary that the state magistracy
should be bound to support the federal
constitution and unnecessary that a like
oath should be imposed on the officers
of the united states in favor of the
state constitutions
several reasons might be a sign for the
distinction i content myself with one
which is obvious and conclusive the
members of the federal government will
have no agency in carrying the state
constitutions into effect
the members and officers of the state
governments on the contrary will have an
essential agency
in giving effect to the federal
constitution the election of the
president and senate will depend in all
cases
on the legislatures of the several
states and the election of the house of
representatives will equally depend on
the same authority in the first instance
and will probably forever be conducted
by the officers and according to the
laws of the states
four among the provisions for giving
efficacy to the federal powers
might be added those which belong to the
executive and judiciary departments
but as these are reserved for particular
examination in another place i pass them
over in this
we have now reviewed in detail all the
articles composing the sum and quantity
of power delegated by the proposed
constitution to the federal government
and are brought to this
undeniable conclusion that no part of
the power is unnecessary or improper for
accomplishing the necessary objects of
the union
the question therefore whether this
amount of power shall be granted or not
resolves itself into another question
whether or not a government commensurate
to the exigencies of the union shall be
established
or in other words whether the union
itself shall be preserved
publius